searchrecords.md, before:

# Search Records - Module 2 Exercise 1

In Epigraphic Database Heidelberg, I searched "artifex" and "agricola", meaning "author/artist" and "farmer". 
[Here](https://edh-www.adw.uni-heidelberg.de/inschrift/suche?hd_nr=&land=&fo_antik=&fo_modern_fundstelle=&literatur=&dat_jahr_a=&dat_jahr_e=&hist_periode=&atext1=artifex&bool=AND&atext2=&sort=hd_nr&anzahl=20) is the link to my search results for artifex. 
And [here](https://edh-www.adw.uni-heidelberg.de/inschrift/suche?hd_nr=&land=&fo_antik=&fo_modern_fundstelle=&literatur=&dat_jahr_a=&dat_jahr_e=&hist_periode=&atext1=agricola&bool=AND&atext2=&sort=hd_nr&anzahl=20) is the link to my search results for agricola.

In CWGC, I searched by my last name (Davidovic) and learned that a man named Ludvik Davidovic had died on November 5, 1944 in WWII. 
He was 30 years old and served as a "vojin" in the Czechoslovakian army. According to Google Translate, vojin means private/soldier.
There was additional information about where he was buried, as well. 
I downloaded this information to my computer, in the form of a .csv file, with which I am not familiar. I was able to open it in the Numbers software that came with my Mac.
The link to my search results can be found [here](https://www.cwgc.org/find/find-war-dead/results?lastName=Davidovic).

Commit message:

Updated file again
Added more info about the epigraphical database, following some explanation of the expectations from Dr. Graham.

searchrecords.md, after:

# Search Records - Module 2 Exercise 1

In Epigraphic Database Heidelberg, I searched "artifex" and "agricola", meaning "author/artist" and "farmer". 
[Here](https://edh-www.adw.uni-heidelberg.de/inschrift/suche?hd_nr=&land=&fo_antik=&fo_modern_fundstelle=&literatur=&dat_jahr_a=&dat_jahr_e=&hist_periode=&atext1=artifex&bool=AND&atext2=&sort=hd_nr&anzahl=20) is the link to my search results for artifex. 
And [here](https://edh-www.adw.uni-heidelberg.de/inschrift/suche?hd_nr=&land=&fo_antik=&fo_modern_fundstelle=&literatur=&dat_jahr_a=&dat_jahr_e=&hist_periode=&atext1=agricola&bool=AND&atext2=&sort=hd_nr&anzahl=20) is the link to my search results for agricola.
What stands out to me about searching in this database rather than others: the amount of information that is given compared to other databases I've used in the past. It didn't stop at place found, date made and date found. In one example, it went on to transcribe the entire artifact, make a list of all 55 people mentioned on the artifact, describe which religion it is associated with, etc.

In CWGC, I searched by my last name (Davidovic) and learned that a man named Ludvik Davidovic had died on November 5, 1944 in WWII. 
He was 30 years old and served as a "vojin" in the Czechoslovakian army. According to Google Translate, vojin means private/soldier.
There was additional information about where he was buried, as well. 
I downloaded this information to my computer, in the form of a .csv file, with which I am not familiar. I was able to open it in the Numbers software that came with my Mac.
The link to my search results can be found [here](https://www.cwgc.org/find/find-war-dead/results?lastName=Davidovic).
